{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2578
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Citibike Phenomenon Analysis\
\
Customer vs Subscriber Impact on Citibike Usage During Covid by reviewing trip data from February 2021 and February 2020.  \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 For this analysis I wanted to take into consideration the unprecedented times that we are in and how commuter data may be impacted substantially due to lockdowns and work from home capabilities. With COVID, this brought the potential for major changes to user data and I thought we may be able to infer / uncover some trends. With my initial review, by using current data, at the height of the pandemic, we may find some interesting observations. First, I wanted to review out of our users, who was using our services more and what is their gender. By having these numbers we could almost predict which bikes/stations would be the most trafficked. From the first dashboard analysis figure which shows the gender count for each user type, we can see that of our users, both customer and subscriber, the gender using the service most was men.  A gender key can be found when hovering over the graph. Next, still trying to hone in on our user data, I thought we should see around which age group were most of our users. Again, similar to the first figure, the data was broken up by user type showing information for both consumers and subscribers.  The second figure shows that most of our customers tend to be around their 50s/60s while most of our subscribers are in their 20s/30s.  Using the data together, we can infer that most users are of working age and more thank likely use the bikes to transit to work. When comparing the data to the same month from last year right before the start of pandemic lockdowns, we can see that usage has gone down tremendously. If we were to focus on a target group to help increase our usage, I think our target group would need to be for men in their 20s, 30s, or 40s,\
\
\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 Urgent Need for Bike Service During Covid\
The next analysis I completed was to see which bikes would be due for service and/or inspection based on their trip duration. Trip duration is described as the seconds in which a trip was completed. By using data from this February and last February, we can see that the top 10 most traveled bikes is not the same as it was a year ago. One thing to note that stood out was that not only did the bikes change but there was a major spike in bike travel from last year to this year. The bikes in February have seen a lot of use as you can see from the top graph. With the top bike reporting over 2 million seconds in trip duration where last year\'92s was under 2 million seconds. Aside from the top 2 and top 3 bikes, the majority of the top 10 bikes for 2021 all had higher trip durations than last year. I was surprised that the second and third bikes had high trips last year but with Covid, finding a reason as to what caused there to be such a sharp jump from the top 1 and 2 bikes for 2021 may be hard to identify.\
\
Map\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 I imported zip-code data from OpenDataSoft to merge with current in-house data points such as latitude and longitude. This allowed me to create a join that would help me label bike station coordinate markers with zip-code details.  I created a map to show the most popular stations and what zip codes they were in. Using this map and the top 10 most traveled bikes data, I was able to see that for the most part the popular stations between both user types were about equal . I thought it was interesting that of the more popular stations bike 47827 was not identified. This was the top most used bike of February 2021. It makes me think the most top used bike may be by one or a few riders that is using the bike on a more individualized / personal level rather than swapping out their bike for a new one.}